# IOS-Projects
Some cool IOS projects that I have worked on...

FirebaseRemindersApp - A reminder app that used Firebase to store a user's reminders in the cloud(Firestore). The firebase authentication system is used to allow uers to create/sign into accounts as well as reset their passwords. The MVVM architecture and the Combine framework are used to make sure that the local data and the database data are both in sync. Note: The pods/dependencies are removed from the uploaded project as including them would exceed the amount of files that Github allows to be uploaded for a project at once. 

Advice - An app that uses a JSON API to fetch a new advice every day to display to the user. The Combine framework is used to facilitate the fetching of the advice and WidgetKit is used to allow users to add Widgets to their home-screen and get the advice at a glance. //TODO: Add MVVM Architecture to the app. 

BetterRest- An app that uses a self-trained CORE-ML model to recommend what time a coffee drinker should sleep to get a certain number of hours of sleep based on their daily coffee intake. 

Bookworm- An app that allows users to track the books they have read and their thoughts about them. The Core Data framework is used to persist the data that the user enters. 

BucketList- An app that allows users to build a map of places they have visited as well as places that are on their BucketList. The MAP KIT framework is used to display the map, add the locations, and carry out other map-related tasks. The Wikipedia API is also used to allow users to see what places are nearby to the place that they select on the map. All data entered into the device is stored in IOS storage. 

Drawing- An app that provides a demo of what the drawing functions in swiftUI are capable of(animating changes, drawing custom paths and shapes, etc.)

GuessTheFlag- A quiz game app that presents the users with the name of a country and images of 3 different flags. Users have to select the flag matching the country in order to increase their score. The various flag-images are obtained by using the Geognos World Countries API.

Instafilter- An app that allows the user to apply a variety of different filters to photos that they select from their photo library. Filters can also be chained on top of each other to create unique effects. The Core Image framework is used to provide the functionality of modifying images with filters. Finally, the result can be directly saved to the user photo library. 

PersonalityQuiz- An app that asks users a variety of questions regarding their personality and then determines what type of animal best matches their characteristics. The real purpose of the app was to learn how segues, navigation views, and data-sharing among views work.  

SpacePhoto- An app that allows users to view the NASA Astronomy Picture Of The Day for any given day. The NASA APOD API is used to get the picture of the day as well as receive information regarding the image. Sometimes the API returns a video instead of a picture and so the youtube-ios-player-helper library(provided by YouTube) is used to display the youtube video within the app. 

ToDoList- A simple app to keep track of things that you have to do. Data entered is persisted using the User Defaults Key-Value Store provided by Apple.

WeSplit- A check-splitting app that users can use after a meal at some restaurant to decide how much each person should pay with the tip factored in. 

WordScramble- A game that shows the player a word and then asks the player to come up with words using just the letters in the given word. The words generated by the user are checked to see if they are real, long enough, and not a duplicate. Points are awarded to the player based on the characteristics of the words generated. 

iExpense- An expense tracker that allows for the tracking business and personal expenses. All data entered is archived using the codable protocol and is persisted using User Defaults. 

HotProspects- A conferencing app that allows users to track who they have met at a conference by scanning their unique QR Codes. The QR Codes were generated using the Core Image framework and scanned using Apple's AVFoundation framework. 

Flashzilla- A flashcards app that allows users to save Flashcard sets to their device and also use those sets to practice. The Core Haptics Framework is used to add Haptic Feedback to the app to enhance the user experience.

Mooskine - A note-taking app that allows users to take notes and store them in notebooks. Built as part of the Udacity Core Data Course. The Core Data framework is used to persist user data to device and fetch the persisted data through predicates and sort descriptors. A background context is also utilized in this app to prevent slow work from blocking the main thread.
